# Market-Basket-Analysis-on-Customer-Data

INTRODUCTION

In this task, you will act as an analyst and create a data mining report. In doing so, you must select one of the data dictionary and data set files to use for your report from the following link: Data Sets and Associated Data Dictionaries.

You should also refer to the data dictionary file for your chosen dataset from the provided link. You will use Python or R to analyze the given data and create a data mining report in a word processor (e.g., Microsoft Word). Throughout the submission, you must visually represent each step of your work and the findings of your data analysis.

SCENARIO

One of the most critical factors in customer relationship management that directly affects a company’s long-term profitability is understanding its customers. When a company can better understand its customer characteristics, it is better able to target products and marketing campaigns for customers, resulting in better profits for the company in the long term.

You are an analyst for a telecommunications company that wants to better understand the characteristics of its customers. You have been asked to perform a market basket analysis to analyze customer data to identify key associations of your customer purchases, ultimately allowing better business and strategic decision-making.

REQUIREMENTS

Part I: Research Question

A. Describe the purpose of this data mining report by doing the following:
1. Propose one question relevant to a real-world organizational situation that you will answer using
market basket analysis.
2. Define one goal of the data analysis. Ensure that your goal is reasonable within the scope of the
scenario and is represented in the available data.

Part II: Market Basket Justification

B. Explain the reasons for using market basket analysis by doing the following:
1. Explain how market basket analyzes the selected dataset. Include expected outcomes. 
2. Provide one example of transactions in the dataset.
3. Summarize one assumption of market basket analysis.

Part III: Data Preparation and Analysis

C. Prepare and perform market basket analysis by doing the following:
1. Transform the dataset to make it suitable for market basket analysis. Include a copy of the cleaned
dataset.
2. Execute the code used to generate association rules with the Apriori algorithm. Provide screenshots
that demonstrate the error-free functionality of the code.
3. Provide values for the support, lift, and confidence of the association rules table.
4. Identify the top three rules generated by the Apriori algorithm. Include a screenshot of the top rules
along with their summaries.

Part IV: Data Summary and Implications

D. Summarize your data analysis by doing the following:
1. Summarize the significance of support, lift, and confidence from the results of the analysis.
2. Discuss the practical significance of the findings from the analysis.
3. Recommend a course of action for the real-world organizational situation from part A1 based on your
results from part D1.
